Render Secrets on top of Intended Configuration (#339)
nautobot/nautobot-plugin-golden-config: docs/user/app_feature_config_to_push.md

# Configuration Postprocessing

!!! note
    current implementation **only renders the configuration to push, it doesn't update the configuration** into the target devices.

The intended configuration job doesn't produce a final configuration artifact (see below for reasons why). The intended configuration is the "intended" **running** configuration, because the intended configuration job generates what is in the final running configuration. This works well for the "compliance" feature, but not as well to create a configuration artifact that is ready to push.

Challenging use cases when using the running configuration as intended :

- Because the intended configuration is stored in the database, and in an external Git repository, it should **not** contain any secret.
- The format of the running configuration is not always the same as the configuration to push, examples include:

>   - Pushing snmpv3 configurations, which do not show up in the running config

Reviewer: Did you review this on the docs page? It may require 4 spaces.

Author: addressed in 1c67798

# Configuration to Push

!!! note 
    current implementation **only renders the configuration to push, it doesn't actually update the configuration** in the target devices.

The Intended Configuration Job doesn't produce a final configuration artifact ready to use to update a network device. You should understand it as the "intended" **running** configuration, because the intended configuration job attempts to generate what is in the final running configuration, and not the configuration artifact that generates the running configuration.

Aside of enabling the "compliance" feature, there are some other limitations on the intended configuration:

- Because the intended configuration is stored in the Database, and in an external Git repository, it SHOULD NOT contain any secret (or derivative).
- The format of the running configuration is not always the same as the configuration to push in some devices, examples include:
  - Pushing snmpv3 configurations
  - VTP configurations
  - Implicit configurations like a "no shutdown" on an interface

> However, Golden Config following intends to become an all encompassing configuration management application, is providing an advanced feature to render the intended configuration in the final format your device is expecting to.

Reviewer: is providing -> in providing??

Current available methods:

- **render_secrets**: enables rendering secrets from its `Secrets Group` slug. You need read permissions to Secrets Groups, Golden Config and the Device object.

### Render Secrets

The `render_secrets` function does an extra render of the original intended configuration, adding support for custom Jinja filters:

- `get_secret_by_secret_group_slug`

!!! note 
    Other default Django or Netutils filters are not available in this Jinja environment. Only `encrypt_type5` and `encrypt_type7` can be used together with the `get_secret` filters.

Because this render happens not in the first one to generate the intended configuration, but on a second one, you must use the `{% raw %}` Jinja syntax to avoid being processed on the first one.

1. For example, an original template like this, `{% raw %}ppp pap sent-username {{ secrets_group["slug"] | get_secret_by_secret_group_slug("username")}}{% endraw %}`
2. Produces an intended configuration as `ppp pap sent-username {{ secrets_group["slug"] | get_secret_by_secret_group_slug("username") }}`
3. After the `render_secrets`, it becomes `ppp pap sent-username my_username`.

> Notice that the `get_secret` filters take arguments. In the example, the `Secret_group` slug is passed, together with the type of the `Secret`. Check every signature for extra customization.

Reviewer: I think it makes sense to document the common ways to send the slug, such as via relationships from devices.

Author: provided below

# Configuration Postprocessing

!!! note

> current implementation **only renders the configuration to push, it doesn't update the configuration** into the target devices.

Reviewer: needs to be indented

> The intended configuration job doesn't produce a final configuration artifact(see below for reasons why). Actually, you should understand it as the "intended" **running** configuration, because the intended configuration job generates what is in the final running configuration. This works well for the "compliance" feature, but not to create a configuration artifact that is ready to push.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The intended configuration job doesn't produce a final configuration artifact (see below for reasons why). The intended configuration is the "intended" **running** configuration, because the intended configuration job generates what is in the final running configuration. This works well for the "compliance" feature, but not as well to create a configuration artifact that is ready to push.
```

> Limitations of the intended configuration feature:
> 
> - Because the intended configuration is stored in the database, and in an external Git repository, it SHOULD NOT contain any secret (or derivative).
> - The format of the running configuration is not always the same as the configuration to push, examples include:
>   - Pushing snmpv3 configurations
>   - VTP configurations
>   - Implicit configurations like a "no shutdown" on an interface

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Challenging use cases when using the running configuration as intended :

- Because the intended configuration is stored in the database, and in an external Git repository, it should **not** contain any secret.
- The format of the running configuration is not always the same as the configuration to push, examples include:
  - Pushing snmpv3 configurations, which do not show up in the running config
  - VTP configurations where the configurations is not in the running config at all
  - Implicit configurations like a "no shutdown" on an interface
- The configurations used to get the configuration to the intended state may require to be ordered to not cause an outage.

```

This is exposed via the `get_config_postprocessing()` function exposed in `nautobot_golden_config.utilities.config_postprocessing`. This method takes the current configurations generated by the Golden Config intended configuration feature, and the HTTP request. This function will return the intended configuration that is **ready to push**.

From the user perspective, you can retrieve this configuration via two methods:

- UI: within the `Device` detail view, if the feature is enabled, a new row in the "Configuration Types" appears, and clicking the icon the new configuration will be rendered on the fly (synchronously). Check figure.
- REST API: at the path `/api/plugins/golden-config/config-postprocessing/{device_id}` you can request the intended configuration processed, and the return payload will contain a "config" key with the rendered configuration.

![Configuration Postprocessing](../images/config_postprocessing_1.png)

## Customize Configuration Processing

There are two different ways to customize the default behavior of `get_config_postprocessing` method:

> - `config_postprocessing_callable`: is the list of **available methods** for processing the intended configuration. It contains some default implemented methods, currently `render_secrets`. But it could be extended via configuration options (see next section).

Reviewer: We need to provide context that it should be in the dotted string format to an importable path.

Reviewer: ping.

Author: resolved in 5b88c8afa091542b049f6de527ecb0d4001df50b
